---
marp: true
class: invert
---

# Fields of Interest in Research

1. Verifiable Computation
2. Secure multiparty computation (MPC)
3. Homomorphic Encryption

---

# 1. About Verifiable Computation

---

# Background of Verifiable Computation

- Currently, clients rely on third parties to perform computations.
    - It's uncertain whether the computation was executed correctly.
- For example, if you request a machine learning computation and receive data in return.
    - It's possible that the data is garbage generated by a pseudo-random number generator, rather than the result of the machine learning algorithm.
- The inability to guarantee the correctness of computations is a problem.

---

# Research Content of Verifiable Computation

- Not only the computation result but also the proof of whether the computation was executed correctly should be returned and verified.
- Probabilistically Checkable Proofs (PCPs) serve as the foundation$^{[pep]}$.

### Basic Scheme$^{[vcwr]}$

```
verifier                          prover
                =   circuit   =>
                =    input    =>
                                  computation based on input
               <=   output    = 
               <=   queries   => 
test
accept/reject
```

---

# Characteristics Required for Verifiable Computation

- If the computation is performed correctly, the client accepts the result (Completeness).
- If the computation is incorrect, the client rejects the result (with high probability) (Soundness).
- The computational cost of verification is less than the cost of the requested computation (Efficiency).
    - If the verification cost exceeds the computation cost, one might as well compute it oneself.

---

# 1. About MPC

---

# Background of MPC

- Servers often retain client data without encryption, except for passwords.
- There's a risk of personal information being stolen due to cyber-attacks.
- Server administrators potentially have access to the personal information of many people.
    - What does privacy mean in such contexts?

---

# Research Content of MPC

- Fully Homomorphic Encryption
    - Calculations can be made while encrypted
    - Capable of simulating any circuit$^{[he]}$.
- Garbled Circuit-based MPC Protocol$^{[mpc]}$
    - You can hide everything other than the output of the requested calculation.
    - Also capable of computing any circuit.

---

# Common Points in Both Fields

Achieving reliable services and applications using unreliable computing resources like the cloud.

---

# Combining the Two Research Areas

- Combination of Garbled Circuit and Fully Homomorphic Encryption$^{[nvc]}$.
- Combination of Verifiable Computation and Zero-Knowledge Proofs$^{[pino]}$.
    - Demonstrating the validity of computations while hiding the prover's internal state.

---

# Challenges

- Performance
    - Overheads in proof and verification.
    - Computing while encrypted is also costly.
- Computational Expressiveness
    - Verifiable computation often has limited representations.
        Example: No side effects, no state.
- Privacy
    - Client: Wants to keep input secret.
    - Server: Wants to keep internal state secret.

---

# Future Endeavors

- Understanding specific methodologies better.
    - Still unclear about PCPs, IPs, etc.
    - Also unclear about homomorphic encryption.
- Considering what kind of systems with what characteristics to build.
    - Prioritize speed or functionality?
    - What instruction set to operate with?

---

# References

[pep]: NYU and UT Austin. Pepper: toward practical verifiable computation. website. 2022. https://www.pepper-project.org

[vcwr]: PictureMichael Walfish, PictureAndrew J. Blumberg. Verifying computations without reexecuting them. Communications of the ACM. 2015. https://dl.acm.org/doi/10.1145/2641562

[pino]: Bryan Parno, Jon Howell, Craig Gentry, Mariana Raykova. Pinocchio: Nearly Practical Verifiable Computation. IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy. 2013. https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/6547113

---

[nvc]: Rosario Gennaro, Craig Gentry, Bryan Parno. Non-Interactive Verifiable Computing: Outsourcing Computation to Untrusted Workers. Cryptology ePrint Archive, Paper 2009/547. 2009. https://eprint.iacr.org/2009/547

[he]: Zama. Homomorphic Encryption 101. website. 2021. https://www.zama.ai/post/homomorphic-encryption-101

[mpc]: mpcalliance. MPC wiki. website. 2020. https://wiki.mpcalliance.org/
